Calculator Application

Overview

This is a modern calculator application built with Python, utilizing customtkinter for the GUI. The app is packaged to run as a standalone executable, and this guide explains how to set up, run, and use the application.

Features

Perform basic arithmetic operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.

Modern graphical user interface (GUI) with customtkinter.

Packaged for easy use on macOS (or other platforms).

How to Use This Application

Option 1: Run Locally from Source Code

Clone the Repository

Ensure Git is installed on your computer.

Open your terminal and run the following command to clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo-name.git

Replace your-username and your-repo-name with your actual GitHub username and repository name.

Navigate to the Project Folder

cd your-repo-name

Install Dependencies

Install Python (version 3.8 or later).

Install required Python libraries by running:

pip install customtkinter

Run the Application

Execute the application using:

python3 main.py

The calculator window will appear. You can start using it to perform calculations.

Option 2: Run from Standalone Executable

If you don’t have Python installed or prefer not to deal with dependencies, you can use the pre-built executable (for macOS):

Download the Executable

Go to the Releases section of the repository: Releases.

Download the latest version of the app (e.g., CalculatorApp-macOS.zip).

Extract the ZIP File

Locate the downloaded ZIP file.

Extract it to a folder of your choice.

Run the Application

Navigate to the extracted folder.

Double-click the main file to launch the calculator.

Using the Calculator

Enter Numbers:

Input numbers into the fields provided.

Perform Operations:

Click the appropriate button (Add, Subtract, Multiply, Divide) to perform calculations.

View Results:

The result will be displayed in the result area below the buttons.

Troubleshooting

Error: "ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'customtkinter'"

This means the required library customtkinter is not installed.

Run the following command to install it:

pip install customtkinter

Error: "Permission Denied" on macOS

macOS might block the app since it’s not signed by Apple.

To resolve this:

Right-click the main executable.

Select Open and confirm any warnings.

How to Contribute

Fork the repository.

Make your changes.

Submit a pull request with a detailed explanation of the changes.
